Helen, I'm Dr. Jonathan Barker, pastor here at Amazing Grace Baptist Church in Mount area, North Carolina.
I would like to personally thank you for taking out time today to tune in to our preaching podcast.
We hope that this message will be a great encouragement to your heart today.
book of Colossians tonight and we're gonna pick up in chapter number two and I've got chapter two three and four outlined out tonight and we'll try to give it to you and then we'll move on from that father thank you for letting us gather in your house tonight I pray God that you would help us father as we look into your word I pray God that we would rightly divide it
God, I pray Lord that you would help us to recall the things that we've studied.
God, may your people get something from your word tonight.
In Jesus name, amen.
and a man.
Chapter number two, you can remain seated tonight because we'll jump around through different verses and read as we go tonight.
But chapter number two, the new life is protected in chapter number two.
And chapter number one, we could see it this way.
There's the new life explained.
Chapter number two, there's the new life protected.
Chapter three,
There's the new life demonstrated.
And in chapter number four, there's the new life displayed.
So as we come into chapter number two tonight, in the first five verses, he really deals with an introduction and there's Paul's pastoral concern for the church.
And then is his conflict for believers he had not seen.
And then you'll find that there's his confidence
in their faith in Christ.
Know what he says in verse number four of chapter number two.
He says, and this I say, lest any man should begow you with enticing words, for though I be absent in the flesh that I am with you in the spirit, joying and beholding your order and the steadfastness of your faith, watch this in Christ.
the steadfastness of your faith.
He didn't say the steadfastness of your faith is in me as the preacher, but he said that it's in Christ tonight.
And he has confidence in their faith in Christ.
Now you've heard me say this before and I'll say it again tonight, but man will fail you.
A preacher on his best day is still just flesh.
He's still just human.
And man will fail you so your faith cannot be in man.
Your faith must be in the master tonight.
Matter of fact, last night at the ballgame, me and Brooke Josh was stalking.
And he had that book, Tell of Three Kings.
And I asked him, I said, man, have you read that?
And he said, I'm just starting.
I think he was in chapter 11, where he was at.
I told him, Brooke Jonathan, I said, it's fixing to get really good in the next few chapters.
And if you've ever read that book, if you have, I encourage you to read it, man.
I'm telling you, it will help you.
But I was talking to him,
About a preacher that had let me down at one time and you know man will do that because we're just human Every one of us sitting in here tonight.
We're just human so our faith Paul is telling them I'm not confident in your faith in me
But I am confident in your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, amen?
Let me show you three things as we walk through chapter number two tonight.
Number one, there is Paul's warning against deception.
In verses number six through eight, he is warning against deception.
There is a call to continue in Christ in verse number six.
as you have therefore received Christ Jesus the Lord.
So walk in him a call to continue in Christ verse seven.
There is a call to be rooted and built up in him.
In verse seven says rooted and built up in him.
and established in the faith as you have been taught abounding Darian with thanksgiving.
So what does he encourage him to do?
He encourages them to be rooted and built up in the Lord Jesus Christ.
Again, he is echoing what he's saying in verse number five, the steadfastness of their faith is in the Lord.
Excuse me.
Then in verse number eight, there is a caution against philosophy in vain to see.
Then again in verse number eight, there's a contrast between Christ and the traditions of man.
Look what he says, he says, be where lest any man spoil you through philosophy in vain to see that after the tradition of man,
after or after the the redundments of the world and not after Christ.
Now, I just want to say this to you tonight.
He's warning them against deception.
I said the past two weeks in the young adult class, the book that I'm teaching through over there that I wrote for them.
I said this, we've got to be grounded in the Word of God.
We've got to be grounded in the Word of God.
And I want to say something to you tonight.
If anybody tries to tell you you're supposed to do something when it comes to spiritual and doctrinal things, they need to back that up with the Word of God, not with man's traditions, not with man, but with the scriptures.
With this, or you say you're supposed to do this, we'll give me a chapter and verse on it.
And I believe, well, it got a little bit quite right there here.
Let me say, give me a chapter and verse on it.
I believe that if it is a doctrine that we hold to tonight, it must be backed up by the Word of God.
It's not just, now I do some things that is a tradition, but I'm not gonna preach them as a doctrine.
I'm not, well, I'm because there's not a chapter and verse on it.
Paul warns against deception.
I got to move tonight.
Number two, Paul's declaration of our completeness in Christ.
Our completeness in Christ.
I don't know this.
He warns against man's deception.
Why?
Because we are complete in the Lord Jesus Christ.
Note what he says, Paul's declaration of our completeness in Christ.
Verse number nine, there's the fullness of Christ's deity.
the fullness of his deity.
What did verse number nine say for him to well if all the fullness of the Godhead bodily?
Can I just say this to you know what that means?
Then it's God the father, God the son, God the Holy Ghost.
All the fullness of the Godhead is in of the Lord Jesus Christ and the fullness of Christ deity.
It's all right here in verse number nine.
Now watch this.
There's the fullness of the believer in Christ in verse number 10.
What did he say?
And you are complete in him, which is the head of all principalities and power.
You know what I'm completing tonight?
I'm not completing myself, but I am completing the Lord Jesus Christ.
Amen.
He completes me.
We can be complete.
and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Verse number 11, there's the spiritual circumcision of the believer.
Verse number 12, there's the burial and the resurrection with Christ.
Nobody said in verse number 12.
You ought to go home and study all of this, and I'm just throwing out and passing out.
But know what he said in verse number 12, buried with him in baptism, where in also ye are risen with him through the faith of the operation of God, who hath raised him from the dead.
You know what he's saying?
He's saying this, I died to the old man.
And I was resurrected a new man in the Lord Jesus Christ.
Now, verse number 13, there's the forgiveness of all trespasses.
Well, I like this.
Look at verse 13.
I got to show this to you.
And you being dead in your sins and the uncircumcision of your flesh had to
quickened together with Him, having forgiven you all trespasses.
You know what he's saying?
He's saying this.
We was dead in sin.
But He quickened us.
He made us alive.
And in doing that, He forgave us of all of our trespasses or of all of our sins.
Can I just say this to you tonight?
My past sin has already been forgiven.
Watch this.
My future sin.
has already been forgiven.
Every individual today, their past sin and their future sin, has already been forgiven.
That's the reason Jesus went to the cross.
I got to move, man.
Watch this, verse 14 and 15.
There's the victory over the powers of darkness in verse 14 and 15.
And I'm glad that we can have victory over that tonight, amen?
So Paul's warning against deception, Paul's declaration of our completeness in Christ, but then he closes out this chapter with the Paul's warning against false spirituality.
There's legalism condemned in verse 16 and 17.
There's mysticism corrected in verse 18 and 19, but then there is a self-denial exposed
in verse 20 through verse number 23.
So the theme of the chapter, I think we could say it this way, in verse number 10.
And you are complete in him.
We're complete in the Lord Jesus Christ tonight.
So chapter number two, there's the new life protected because we're complete what in the Lord Jesus Christ, not in our self.
Can I just say this to you tonight?
My salvation is not in me.
Amen.
And your salvation is not in you.
But it's in him tonight.
He gave it to me.
And then after he gave it to me, he sealed it with a Holy Ghost of God until he comes back and gets us.
Amen.
Now, chapter number three tonight, I really want to get to chapter number four and spend a little bit of time in chapter number four.
Chapter number three tonight, there's the new life demonstrated.
The new life demonstrated the first four verses.
He deals with this in an introduction.
There's the believer's new position in Christ.
Look what he said in chapter number three, verse number one.
If he then be risen with Christ, seek those things.
which are above, which, uh, where Christ sent us on the right hand of God, the believers at new position.
Uh, if you then be risen with Christ.
Now watch this.
There's the believers, new perspective on life in verse number two, set your affections.
What on things above?
Verse number two talks about not setting your affections.
Don't set your love on things here, but set it on things above.
What did he say?
He said, love not the world.
Neither the things that are in the world.
For if any man loved the world, the love of the Father is not in him.
Amen.
You know what we're to do tonight?
Here is our new perspective on life.
We live for eternity.
We live for the day that we stand before him and we give an account not for our sins.
That's under the blood, but for what we've done for him.
And there is a new perspective on life now.
Then there's the believer's new hope of glory.
Look what he said in verse number three.
for ye are dead, and your life is hid with Christ in God.
When Christ who is our life shall appear, then shall ye also appear with him in glory."
Thank God there's a new hope of glory.
Amen?
Can I just say to you?
I've been saved from the penalty of sin.
But one day I will be absent from the presence of sin because of my salvation.
Why?
Because of glory.
When we get to heaven, there'll be no sin in heaven, amen.
So there is the introduction in those first four verses.
Now, watch this.
I'll show you three things out of this chapter.
There's the believer's responsibilities concerning
the old life.
The believer's responsibilities concerning the old life in verse number five to nine.
Mortify the deeds of the flesh in verse number five.
Mortify the deeds of the flesh.
Verse number six, remember the wrath of God.
Remember the wrath of God.
What did the Bible say?
For which things sake?
The wrath of God cometh on the children of disobedience.
I want to say this tonight, you better remember the wrath of God.
God said this, those who my loveeth, I corrected.
Now say that again, those who my loveeth, I can already say, and he's saying this, just like you'll correct your child or you should when they do wrong.
Let me just re-emphasize that.
You should when they do wrong, gay man.
God will correct us.
Now watch this, recognize our former walk in verse number seven, in which he also walked some time when you lived in them, but watch verse eight, there's the removed sinful attitudes and action.
He said, but now also put off all these anger, wrath, malice, blaspheme, filthy communication out of your mouth, lie not one to another seeing that you have put off the old man,
with his deeds, so removes sinful attitudes and actions.
So there's the believer's responsibilities concerning the old life.
Number two, there's the believer's reality in the new life.
And can I say this, serving Jesus is real.
Walking in the presence of God is real.
Walking in fellowship of the Lord is real.
Now watch this, the believer's reality in the new life.
Verse number 10, a new man in Christ, what did he say?
And have put on the new man, which is renewed in knowledge after the image of him, that created him.
Well, who is that?
That is God.
God is the one that created man.
So there he is, a new man in Christ.
Now, what's verse number 11?
The Bible said this,
Well, there is neither Greek nor Jew circumcision or uncircumcision, barbarian, Scythian, bound nor free, but Christ in all, and in, or Christ is all, and in all.
There is a new man in Christ, but there is a new unity in Christ.
Now watch this, there is a new character that must be put on now.
a new character, why?
Because we're new in Him.
We're new in Him.
Look in verse number 12.
Put on, therefore, as the elect of God, holy and beloved vows of mercy, kindness, summonness of mind, meekness, long suffering,
for bearing one another and for giving one another even, or not even, but if any man have a quarrel against any, even as Christ forgave you, so also do ye.
And above all these things put on charity, which is the bond of perfectness.
I want to show this to you now.
There's a new character to be put on.
Now that you're saved,
Are you hearing me now that you're saying, there is a new character that we should have.
What is that?
Well, he outlines it all right there for bearing one another, forgiving one another, to be holy.
And you said, preach what are you saying?
Man, now that we're saved, we're to be different than we used to be.
Watch this verse 15, the new piece to rule the heart.
What did he say in verse 15?
And let the peace of God rule in your hearts,
to the which also you're called in one body and be thankful.
Then a new word to dwell richly in verse 16.
Let the word of Christ dwell in your richly and all wisdom teaching and admonishing one another in Psalms and hymns, spiritual songs singing with grace
in your hearts of the Lord.
Now know what he says, this new word to dwell richly.
What did he say?
He said this, let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom.
The word, well, what is the word?
Well, according to John, in the beginning was the word, the word was with God, the word was God, verse 14, and the word was made.
flesh and dwelt among us.
So what is the word?
It's our Bible tonight.
Now I want to say this to you tonight, a new word to dwell richly.
Now that we're saved, man, this Bible is what we live our life by, man.
There's a new purpose in all things, looking for 17.
And whatsoever you do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, given thanks to God and the Father by Him.
So there's the believer's responsibility concerning the old life, the believer's reality in the new life, and then there's the believer's relationship under the new life in verse 18 to 25.
What is it?
There's the marriage relationship in verse 18 and 19.
There's a family relationship in verse 20 and 21.
There is a work relationship in verse 22 to verse 25.
The theme of the chapter could be all summed up in verse number 11, where the Bible said Christ is all and in all.
So what is the main theme?
Well, I'd just say it's the main theme of the whole Bible.
It's Christ and everything, amen?
Chapter number four, there's a new life display.
So we see there is a new life protected, a new life demonstrated, but in verse or in chapter number four, there is a new life
that is displayed, a new life that is displayed.
It's interesting in chapter number four, Christian living extended to leadership and authority in chapter number four.
Nobody says in verse number one, masters give unto your servants that which is just and equal knowing that you also have a master in heaven.
He begins, I could say it this way, dealing with leadership in verse number one.
And what is he saying?
He's saying, you need to treat them like you're supposed to treat them.
If you're their quote unquote master, can I say it this way?
If you're in leadership, if you're their boss, give unto your servants that which is just an equal, knowing that you also have a master in heaven.
Now, I want you to see,
Verse number one, he deals with an introduction and then verse two through four, there's the believer's prayer life.
Let's read verse two through four.
Continue in prayer, we're in chapter number four.
Continue in prayer and watching the same with thanksgiving, with all praying also for us that God would open unto us a door of utterance to speak the mystery of Christ,
for which I am also in bonds that I may make it manifest as I ought to speak."
I thought about this, the Believer's Prayer Life.
There is the persistence of prayer in verse number two.
Continue in prayer.
You know, I told you I had one word for this year and it's the word prayer.
And I want to say this to you, there should be a persistency in our prayer life.
Some people has a persistency in their prayer life.
And here's what it is.
When something goes wrong, they pray.
Can I say that again?
That is not the persistency I'm talking about.
Matter of fact, that's Alonian said this to us.
Paul says, pray without ceasing.
You know what he's saying?
He's saying to be in a spirit of prayer at all times.
The right after dad had resigned Northwood and came here the first January that they were here at the church as members.
That year I challenged everybody with a Daniel fast like I do every year, but that year I challenged everybody to really stick straight to the Daniel fast.
And I know some people still does every year.
Some people just choose just something to fast run for the first 21 days.
And actually that year I challenged you to do it for 40 days and read the New Testament in 40 days.
And so it was 40 days and there was no meat and no sugars except natural sugars and several different things.
And I remember during that time,
I'm dad and I was talking and I don't know.
We was probably halfway into it.
And he said, man, a hot dog sure would be good.
And I said, well, I just don't think about it, man.
I said, when you're tempted, that's when you pray.
You hear me?
That's part of fasting is when you're drawn to that thing.
You, you prayed there in that time.
Daddy said to you, I'll never forget.
He said, you know what I'm trying to do.
I said, what's that?
He said, I'm trying my best for 40 days to walk in a spirit of prayer every day.
For 40 days to walk in a spirit of prayer.
You know what he was saying?
He was saying this, I'm trying to practice Colossians four to continue in prayer.
I mean, can I say something to you tonight, pray?
Every day of your life, pray.
He said, preach, I don't have time.
You don't have time not to.
that time that you're driving up the road, keep your eyes open, but pray.
Brother Milton Taylor, one of the greatest preachers that you'll ever hear, we've had them here at the church.
One of the greatest prayer warriors that I've ever met in my life.
And you know what brother Taylor said?
He said, some of the greatest play in I do is widen up a road.
You that knows him knows the speech impediment that he has from being almost deaf.
And he said, that's some of the greatest prayer and I do.
He said, when I'm looking out that windshield, he said, boy, I spend a lot of time with the Lord.
He said, continue in prayer, continue in prayer.
Chapter number four, there's the believer's prayer life.
There's the persistence of prayer, but also in verse number two, there's the perspective of Thanksgiving.
continuing prayer and watching the same with Thanksgiving.
Prayer is not just the time that we ask God for something.
If the only time my kids talk to me was when they wanted something, to be honest, we wouldn't have much of a relationship.
Why?
Because every time they come to me, but Josh, I'd be thinking, well, what do they want now?
What do they want now?
I wonder when we go to God, if God goes, I wonder what they want now.
I wonder what they want now.
You know what he's saying?
He's saying this, man in our prayer, there's the perspective of Thanksgiving.
May we not forget each day to thank him for what he's done, to thank him for what he's done.
I'm telling you, man, we're a blessed people tonight.
God has been good to us, say man, the perspective.
of thanksgiving, but then there's the priority of the gospel opportunity in his prayer.
Know what he says in verse number three, with all praying also for us that God would open unto us a door of utterance to speak the mystery of Christ for which I am also in bonds.
That I may make it manifest as all to speak.
You know what he says?
He says, when you pray,
Number one, be persistent in it.
Number two, the perspective of Thanksgiving has to be there, but watch this.
He says, there should be a priority in your prayer for the gospel to go out.
He says, pray.
No one he says, man, that I may make it manifest as all to speak.
What is he talking about?
He's talking about the Lord Jesus Christ with that boat into great depths.
He's talking about the death of burial and the resurrection.
He's talking about the gospel.
He's saying pray that I can share the gospel with somebody.
You that was here on Monday night enjoyed listening to a 92 year old man preach like a 21 year old man.
My goodness, the brother wants to not preach Monday night, but I thought about this.
He began telling those stories of people he had led to the Lord.
I love to sit down with Brother Darrell Cox and listen to Brother Darrell Cox tell stories of people he has led to the Lord.
I love to listen to Brother Bobby Robertson preach and just about any time you hear him preach, he'll give illustrations of people that he had led to the Lord.
You know what we ought to do every day of our life when we pray, when we get up first thing in the morning, we're going to say, God, would you help put me on the path of somebody to tell them about Jesus today?
He still says this, the fields are wide under harvest.
There's plenty to harvest, but the labors are few.
You know what he's saying?
He's saying this, there's people that would get saved if somebody would just tell them.
Somebody would just tell them.
So he prays, and he's talking in his prayer, and he's teaching them to pray that the gospel would go out.
So there's the believers' prayer life, but now watch this number two.
There's the believers' public walk.
Look at verse number five and six.
Walk and wisdom toward them that are without redeeming the time.
There's so much can be said right there, let your speech be all the way with grace
seasoned with salt that you may know how you ought to answer every man.
And I'm going to tell you something, verse number four and five, or verse number five and six has so much in them tonight.
Look what he said again, verse number five.
He deals in verse number five, walking in wisdom toward them without.
And all he's saying, he's saying this, you need to be wise
to the way you talk to that man that's not saved.
I'm just going to tell you something tonight.
You roll up in there and go to condemn him to hell for everything that he's done.
Sometimes you got to show somebody a little bit of love.
You got to show them a little bit of compassion.
And that's what he's saying to us tonight.
Man, that I may make it manifest is all I speak, walking wisdom toward them that are without redeeming the time.
redeeming the type he's saying to us, walking wisdom toward them.
Be careful how you talk to them.
I'm all for, I'm all for giving the gospel.
I don't say something to you tonight.
If you'll give the gospel, it'll expose the sin.
If you'll just give them the gospel, it'll expose the sin.
You know what?
I've never had to convince many people that there was a center.
I've never had to convince them that they was, had done wrong in their life.
I don't want to say something, we were to walk in wisdom, but look in verse number five again, he talks about the believer's trouble to redeem the time, to redeem the time.
Now look at verse number six, speaking with grace and season with song.
I, I, I really, I've preached all night to get to this one verse.
Cause I'm telling you, if we're not careful, we're missing it right here.
We're either too lax or we're over the top.
Are you with me right there?
We're either too lax or we're over the top in this subject.
He gives us an illustration in verse number six, let your speech be all way with grace, all way with grace.
Now know what he says, season was solved.
that you may know how you ought to answer every man.
I read a bunch of stuff on this verse, and I want to give you some of it tonight.
I want to give you some of it.
Let your speech be all the way with grace.
Here's what one writer said.
Speech refers not just to preaching or teaching, but everyday conversation.
All the way indicates consistency.
Grace field words are not situational, but habitual.
And what he's saying right there, he's saying this, that grace field words are not a situational but habitual.
Grace means speech with the speech means speech that reflects Christ, kind, patient, humble and undeserving loving.
And these do not mean avoiding truth, but believing truth in a Christ like
spirit and then delivering truth in a Christ like spirit.
Every time you've heard me say this before, every time that Jesus really comes down harsh, you know who it's with a bunch of Pharisees.
That's who it's with.
It's with the religious sector.
He didn't come down hard on that lady at the well.
He told her truth.
He said, been married five times.
And man, you're living with now, ain't you husband?
But he didn't look at her and say, you ain't nothing, but a no good for nothing harlot that nobody wants nothing to do with.
And the only reason you're here at this time of the day, she should have been there at that time of the day.
They went early in the morning, but she didn't go early in the morning.
You know, we changed the reason she did.
None of the other women in town liked her.
Jesus didn't go down her throat on her.
You know what he did?
His words was seasoned with grace, man, with grace.
Our words should build bridges, not walls.
Even correction and conviction should sound like Christ, not condemnation.
Boy, I thought that was good.
Season with salt.
Let your speech be all the way with grace.
Here's what one writer said about that.
He said salt in the scripture often symbolizes purity, preservation and flavor.
Grace without salt can become vague or compromising.
Salt keeps speech from becoming bland and insincere.
Salt also stings when applied to wound truth can be sharp, but it preserves and heals.
Jesus used this imaginary
in Matthew five, verse 13, when speaking of influence, Christian speech should be thoughtful, meaningful and truthful, never empty and careless.
He said this, that you may know how you ought to answer every man.
This implies discernment, not rehearsed answers.
Every person is different.
Wisdom is required to know how and when to speak.
The goal is not winning arguments, but wisely representing the Lord Jesus Christ.
This lines with 1 Peter 3, 15, give it an answer with meekness and fear.
Grace and truth prepared us to respond wisely and not react emotionally.
Colossians 4, 6, he goes on to say this, teaches that a believer's words
should be gracious and tall, truthful and content, and wise in delivery so that every conversation becomes an opportunity to reflect the Lord Jesus Christ.
Man, is that not good?
Can I, I wish I could claim it, but I can't.
He said Colossians 4, 6, teaches that a believer's words should be gracious and tall.
truthful and content and wise in delivery so that every conversation becomes an opportunity to reflect the Lord Jesus Christ.
I want to ask you a question.
Every conversation that you've had with somebody the past seven days, did that leave you with an opportunity to present Christ?
Oh, me.
Yeah, I might as well say it with me.
O me, and many a-man's gonna be said right there.
But you know what he's saying right here, as he is dealing with a new life display, everything we say, we ought to do it with an obedience to Christ and being careful how we say it, so Christ can be represented in it.
Well, there's the believer's pattern in the work, verse seven through 18, I'll give this to you quickly and we'll go.
Faithful servants in ministry in verse seven through nine,
fellow laborers and encouragers in verse 10 through 14 the fellowship of the church in verse 15 and 16 a final personal exhortation in verse 17 and then verse 18 pause closing salutation and grace the overall theme of Colossians we could say it this way the new life explained the new life protected the new life demonstrated but the new life displayed are we
Miss Daniel, you come start playing selfless.
Are we displaying the new life the right way?
Are we displaying?
I want to read you something one more time in closing tonight.
I know I've read it twice.
I want to read it to you.
Again, I want you to think about it.
Colossians four, six teaches that a believer's word.
Words should be gracious and taught.
Should be truthful and content.
and wise in delivery so that every conversation becomes an opportunity to reflect Christ.
My limitation, I read that this afternoon, sitting back there in the office.
And you know what I had to do after I read it, brother Mark, I had to pray.
So what did you pray about?
I prayed and asked God to forgive me for some of my conversations, even already this year.
because if we're not careful, we'll react to a situation.
And really when you study all the chapter number four, really when you study all the book of Colossians, he's showing and he really wraps it up in chapter number four.
He's teaching you to be proactive instead of reactive.
You understand what I'm saying right there?
I hope you understand what I'm saying to you.
That's what he's teaching us tonight.
And when we become proactive, instead of reactive at the end of every one of our conversations, we'll be able to present Christ and they'll be able to see Christ in us.
If you live a reactive life, it won't be that way.
It won't be that way.
You're sure how to become proactive.
Well, he just showed you in the book of Colossians.
He showed you, man.
Where's this started?
It starts with prayer and it starts with the word because David said, thy word, if I hid in my heart, that I might not sin against thee.
When temptation come against Jesus, what did he do?
All three times, he quoted the Bible.
It is written.
It starts with our prayer line and it starts with applying the word to our life so that our words
will be words of grace seasoned with songs.